SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL HOLIDAY

South Africa has 12 public holidays as determined by the Public Holidays Act
(Act No 36 of 1994) [PDF]. The Act determines whenever any public holiday falls
on a Sunday, the Monday following on it shall be a public holiday.


1 January: New Year's Day
description:	New Year's Day, also simply called New Year or New Year's is
		not just a South African Holiday. South Africa 
		is just one of the country that celebrate this day. Usualy this holiday is observed
		on 1 January, the first day of the year on the modern Gregorian
		calendar as well as the Julian calendar. Whilst most solar calendars
		(like the Gregorian and Julian) begin the year regularly at or near the
		northern winter solstice, the start of the new year in cultures that
		observe a lunisolar or lunar calendar (such as the Chinese New
		Year and the Islamic New Year) happen at less fixed points
		relative to the solar year. 
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Year%27s_Day


21 March: Human Rights Day
description:	The Bill of Rights contained in the Constitution is the cornerstone of
		democracy in South Africa.  The Constitution provides for the
		establishment of the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC)(link
		is external). The aim of the Commission is to promote respect for human
		rights, promote the protection, development and attainment of human
		rights, and to monitor and assess the observance of human rights in SA.
		The SAHRC was launched on 21 March 1996, 35 years after the fateful
		events of 21 March 1960 when demonstrators in Sharpeville were gunned
		down by police.  The Native Laws Amendment Act of 1952 extended
		Government control over the movement of Africans to urban areas and
		abolished the use of the Pass Book (a document which Africans were
		required to carry on them to 'prove' that they were allowed to enter a
		'white area') in favour of a reference book which had to be carried at
		all times by all Africans.
url: https://www.gov.za/about-sa/public-holidays

* April/May: Good Friday
description:	The dates on which Good Friday and Easter Sunday fall are determined
		according to the ecclesiastical moon. That varies each year but they fall at
		some point between late March and late April.
url: https://www.gov.za/about-sa/public-holidays

* April/May: Family Day
description:    Family Day is a holiday currently observed in South Africa the day
		after Easter Sunday each year. This holiday was established for the
		purpose of giving each South African family (regardless of religion and
		background) a special day to be with their loved ones. In the past,
		instead of celebrating Family Day, the country is celebrating this day
		as Easter Monday. Easter Monday succeeding Easter Sunday, is a
		celebration with religious connotation. 
url: https://www.generalblue.com/family-day-in-south-africa

27 April: Freedom Day
description:    Freedom Day on 27 April is an annual celebration of South Africa's
		first non-racial democratic elections of 1994. It is significant
		because it marks the end of over three hundred years of colonialism,
		segregation and white minority rule and the establishment of a new
		democratic government led by Nelson Mandela and a new state subject to
		a new constitution.  This is a time to reflect on the strides we have
		made in achieving the vision of a better life for all. Undoubtedly much
		has changed since 1994 and there has been progress in every sphere of
		society, but we are aware that more must still be done.  Freedom Day
		2014 is especially significant as it marks 20 years since our first
		free election. President Zuma will address the nation at the Freedom
		Day celebrations on Sunday, 27 April 2014 at Union Buildings Grounds in
		Pretoria.  Government calls on all South Africans to join in
		celebrating national Freedom Day and to extend celebrations of our
		democracy across the country in reflecting on the achievements we have
		made as a nation.  Freedom Day is also a time to reflect on what makes
		us proud to be South Africans. These include our our national symbols: flag_m.jpg
url: https://www.gov.za/freedom-day-2014

1 May: International Workers' Day 
description:    Originally born from the protracted struggle for workers’ rights and
		social justice of the late 1800s, Workers’ Day has been an
		international holiday in many countries since 1891. In South Africa, a
		country with its own long and sordid history of labour and social
		conflicts.  Workers’ Day has been officially recognised and observed
		since the first democratic elections in 1994. The holiday serves both
		as a celebration of workers’ rights and as a reminder of the critical
		role that trade unions, the Communist Party and other labour
		organisations played in the fight against Apartheid.  Workers’ Day in
		South Africa holds its own cultural significance, as the public holiday
		has come to signify not only the sacrifices made on the long road
		toward fair employment standards but also the bitter battle against
		Apartheid in which trade and labour unions played a key role.  Because
		South Africa’s working classes were those most oppressed by Apartheid,
		the struggle for better working conditions and the struggle to
		overthrow systemic segregation became closely linked. Before the
		elections of 1994, labour and trade groups often used Workers’ Day as a
		symbol to rally the population against the segregation and oppression
		of the Apartheid system, organising demonstrations and encouraging
		widespread resistance.
url: https://www.gov.za/WorkersDay2021

16 June: Youth Day
description:    In 1975 protests started in African schools after a directive from the
		then Bantu Education Department that Afrikaans had to be used on an
		equal basis with English as a language of instruction in secondary
		schools. The issue, however, was not so much the Afrikaans as the whole
		system of Bantu education which was characterised by separate schools
		and universities, poor facilities, overcrowded classrooms and
		inadequately trained teachers. On 16 June 1976 more than 20 000 pupils
		from Soweto began a protest march. In the wake of clashes with the
		police, and the violence that ensued during the next few weeks,
		approximately 700 people, many of them youths, were killed and property
		destroyed.  Youth Day, previously known as Soweto Day, commemorates
		these events.
url: https://www.gov.za/YouthDay2018

9 August: National Women's Day
description:    Women's Day marks the anniversary of the great women's march of 1956,
		where women marched to the Union Buildings to protest against the
		carrying of pass books.  On 9 August 1956, about 20 000 women marched
		to the Union Buildings in Pretoria to protest against legislation aimed
		at tightening the apartheid government's control over the movement of
		black women in urban areas.  Women's Day 2014 was celebrated in the
		King Zwelithini Stadium un Umlazi, eThekwini (Durban) where President
		Jacob Zuma delivered the keynote address.
url: https://www.gov.za/womens-day


24 September: Heritage Day
description:   Heritage Day on 24 September recognises and celebrates the cultural
		2013 National Heritage Day celebration under the theme, Reclaiming,
		Restoring and Celebrating Our Living Heritage. Deputy President Kgalema
		Motlanthe will address the National Heritage Day celebrations at
		Mdantsane, in the Buffalo Metropolitan Municipality, Eastern Cape.
		Living heritage is the foundation of all communities and an essential
		source of identity and continuity. Aspects of living heritage include:
		cultural tradition, oral history, performance, ritual, popular memory,
		skills and techniques, indigenous knowledge system and the holistic
		approach to nature, society and social relationships. In South Africa
		the term “intangible cultural heritage” is used interchangeably with
		the term “living heritage”.  Living heritage plays an important role in
		promoting cultural diversity, social cohesion, reconciliation, peace
		and economic development. In every community there are living human
		treasures who possess a high degree of knowledge, skills and history
		pertaining to different aspects of diverse living heritage. It is
		therefore important for South Africans to reclaim, restore and preserve
		these various aspects of living heritage to accelerate the use of
		living heritage to address challenges communities are facing today.
		The Department of Arts and Culture developed a draft policy on the
		South African living heritage. This policy, once adopted, will set the
		tone for the South African Agenda and highlight the following roles:
		safeguarding living heritage as a valuable resource for future
		generations and
url: https://www.gov.za/heritage-day

16 December: Day of Reconciliation
description:    In apartheid South Africa 16 December was known as Day of the Vow, as
		the Voortrekkers in preparation for the battle on 16 December against
		the Zulus took a Vow before God that they would build a church and that
		they and their descendants would observe the day as a day of
		thanksgiving should they be granted victory. With the advent of
		democracy in South Africa 16 December retained its status as a public
		holiday, however, this time with the purpose of fostering
		reconciliation and national unity.  During the earlier part of the 19th
		century, many Afrikaner farmers left the eastern cape and moved inland.
		Among them was the Voortrekkers, a group of Afrikaners protesting
		British colonialism and seeking independent republics on what was
		reputedly empty land. But the land was not empty and clashes between
		these Afrikaners and indigenous peoples were inevitable.  Late in 1837
		one of the Voortrekker leaders, Piet Retief, entered into negotiations
		for land with Dingane, the Zulu king. In terms of the negotiations
		Dingane promised the Voortrekkers land on condition they returned
		cattle to him stolen by Sekonyela (the Tlokwa chief). This Retief did
		and apparently he and Dingane signed a treaty on 6 February 1838.
		During the ceremony Dingane had Retief and his entourage murdered - an
		event which was witnessed by Francis Owen, a missionary who described
		the scene in his diary.  In ensuing battles between Zulus and
		Voortrekkers over the next few months numerous lives were lost on both
		sides.  On 16 December 1838 about 10 000 troops under the command of
		Dambuza (Nzobo) and Nhlela attacked the Voortrekkers, but the 470
		Voortrekkers, with the advantage of gun powder, warded them off. Only
		three Voortrekkers were wounded, but more than 3 000 Zulus were killed
		during the battle.
url: https://www.gov.za/speeches/day-reconciliation-2020-10-dec-2019-1105

25 December: Christmas Day
description:    Christmas is an annual festival commemorating the birth of Jesus
		Christ, observed primarily on December 25[a] as a religious and
		cultural celebration by billions of people around the world.[2][10][11]
		A feast central to the Christian liturgical year, it is preceded by the
		season of Advent or the Nativity Fast and initiates the season of
		Christmastide, which historically in the West lasts twelve days and
		culminates on Twelfth Night.[12] Christmas Day is a public holiday in
		many of the world's nations,[13][14][15] is celebrated religiously by a
		majority of Christians,[16] as well as culturally by many
		non-Christians,[1][17] and forms an integral part of the holiday season
		organized around it.
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christmas

26 December: Day of Goodwill
description:    Better known to most as Boxing Day – The Day of Goodwill (December 26)
		is the official South African public holiday that falls on the day
		after Christmas each year. Renamed by the South African Government in
		1994 to sever ties to a colonial past, the holiday was initially
		created in honour of the time when people in the UK spent their day
		‘boxing up’ their lovely Christmas gifts.  An extension of Christmas –
		or for most, a day to recover from the indulgence of Christmas – the
		Day of Goodwill is best celebrated with family and friends at the
		beach, a braai, or simply by practising goodwill unto others and
		sharing in the South African summer festivities.
url: https://publicholidays.co.za/day-of-goodwill/



